docs: SSR overhaul combined client page PoC (#38405)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/auth/server-side/creating-a-client.mdx

    </AccordionItem>

</Accordion>

<div className="mt-12">
  <$CodeTabs>
    <$CodeSample
      path="/auth/nextjs/utils/supabase/client.ts"
      meta="name=utils/supabase/client.ts"
      language="typescript"
    />
    <$CodeSample
      path="/auth/nextjs/utils/supabase/server.ts"
      meta="name=utils/supabase/server.ts"
      language="typescript"
    />
  </$CodeTabs>
</div>

### Hook up middleware

Create a `utils/supabase` folder at the root of your project, or inside the `./src` folder if you are using one, with a file for each type of client. Then copy the utility functions for each client type.

The code adds a [matcher](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware#matching-paths) so the middleware doesn't run on routes that don't access Supabase.

<Admonition type="danger">

Be careful when protecting pages. The server gets the user session from the cookies, which can be spoofed by anyone.

Always use `supabase.auth.getClaims()` to protect pages and user data.

_Never_ trust `supabase.auth.getSession()` inside server code such as middleware. It isn't guaranteed to revalidate the Auth token.

> It's safe to trust `getClaims()` because it sends a request to the Supabase Auth server every time to revalidate the Auth token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's safe to trust `getClaims()` because it validates the JWT signature against the project's published public keys every time.
```
